Now that we know more about Kinesis data streams,
let's look at how these different concepts come together.
Let's try to visualize some of these concepts. First,
for every stream, we'll need a producer.
In this case,
we might have something like the Kinesis agent producer that takes server logs
and sends them into a kinesis data stream from the server,
this agent would bundle up the records and then send
them over to a kinesis data stream.
Behind the scenes,
the kinesis data stream will have one or more shards that actually store
the data and make it available to consumers and an application using the
AWS SDKs could then pick these records up.
Now, when the records come in,
they'll be distributed between the different shards,
depending on some characteristics of the record that
we'll talk about a little later.
Now, once the data is inside of the shards,
it could be read by something like the AWS SDKs.
Now it's not going to actually remove the data from the shards,
and this is pretty important because other consumers might want to come back
and reference that data later on. Kinesis data streams can also be read by
multiple consumers and consumers of different types.
So in addition to the AWS SDK,
we might have another application using something like the client library
in order to interact with the same kinesis data stream.
Now these different applications have the ability to start
reading data at different points in time.
For example,
the client library application might want to read all the data in the
stream currently, but the AWS SDK application that we just had might
not have cared about data that was already of a certain age, so these
older records here were going into our client library application, but
weren't being picked up by our other application with the AWS SDK.
Importantly, however, for any consumer/producer combination,
the data that lives inside of a kinesis data stream is only
around as long as the retention period for that stream. By
default, this period is 24 hours,
but it can be extended for as long as 7 days, and when that period is hit,
the data will eventually be removed from the kinesis data stream
and this will happen for all of the records that hit that agent
inside of the stream. Past that point,
you won't be able to have your applications access those records.
So now that we understand some of the high‑level
concepts surrounding kinesis data streams,
let's look more closely at some of these concepts.
Let's look more closely at the data records and what's inside of them.
All data records have a sequence number,
which is used to determine the position and order of a record within a stream.
These numbers are unique within a shard and assigned
when the record is put into that shard.
Data records also have a partition key,
which helps determine which shard inside of a kinesis data stream they
should be placed in and also helps group data by shard.
There is also a data blob,
which contains the raw data itself for the record. This can
be data in a variety of formats as long as they're within the
data blob size limit of 1 MB.
Now, let's take a look at some of the limitations around kinesis data streams.
First,
there is a total record size limit of 1 MB for the data blob inside of a record.
This applies to all the content inside of the data blob itself.
but not the sequence number or the partition key that are included for us.
AWS accounts can have any number of streams inside the account.
However,
since each kinesis data stream must have at least one shard when
created, the number of streams will be bound by the current
limitations around the number of shards.
By default, there is a soft limit of 200 to 500 shards,
depending on the AWS region you're using.
However,
you can request that these limitations be increased if you need more capacity.
The default data retention length for data stored in streams
is 24 hours, but as I mentioned before, for a little bit of extra cost,
you can expand it as far as 7 days.
Shards have limitations that determine how many records and of what size
can be written or read from a stream in a given period. To start, shards
can ingest 1 MB of data per second, however,
they're are also bound to 1,000 records ingested per second.
In cases when you have many thousands of smaller records that fit within 1 MB,
using something like the Kinesis producer library to aggregate the
records helps optimize around these limitations by bundling multiple
records in tow one before sending them into kinesis.
Now when it comes to a reading data from a stream,
each shard allows 2 mbps of reads and each shard also allows up to 5
transactions per second that are read transactions.
Now each read transaction can be up to 10 MB in size
and contain up to 10,000 records.
And if using a large read transaction above the 2 mbps limit,
future requests to the stream will be denied until
your capacity catches back up.
Now,
these limits help indicate an important distinction of kinesis data streams to
other tools, generally, that kinesis data streams is designed to help support
multiple consumers and read larger volumes of data than you write to the stream.
Kinesis data streams shards are also directly related to how capacity is scaled
up and down within a stream.
When you want to adjust the capacity of a stream,
you have the ability to use a process called resharding.
This process allows you to either split or merge a shard.
When you split a shard, it separates it into two shards,
each with their own capacity that's applied to the
entire kinesis data stream and added up.
This increases the overall capacity of the kinesis data
stream. Contrastingly, when you merge shards,
this decreases the overall capacity of the stream. Because
the number of shards directly correlates to the price you
pay for kinesis data streams,
increases or decreases to the number of shards in a stream
also has the same impact on the price you pay for the
overall capacity of that stream.
So let's visualize kinesis data streams one more time,
this time looking at shards, producers, and consumers.
Now let's say we have a producer that's sending data over to our kinesis
data stream. This will go immediately into a shard,
and as we add more and more data,
it'll be stored inside of that shard where consumers can access it
and these consumers can access individual pieces of the data or the
entire data set that's in our shard.
And we can set up multiple consumers to do this at the same time,
maybe two different applications that each have their
own use cases for our organization.
We could also keep adding producers that continue to
add additional data to our shard, but at that point,
we might hit the capacity limits of our shards
inside of our kinesis data stream.
So we would need to then take our shard and split the shard into multiple
shards to improve the capacity that we have in our stream.
Now, when we do this,
the data inside these shards is going to be split between them,
and the consumers will still be accessing the kinesis data stream, but they'll
also have to determine how they want to interact with these shards individually if they're looking for one kind of data or another.